hi you know what i'm thinking of course
you don't
but i'm thinking someday someone will
finally invent a time machine and you'll
be able to travel back and forth between
the future in the past
but the good news is you already have
the superpower of slowing down and
speeding up time
right now the older you get the faster
time
seems to fly by first of all the way you
perceive the flow of time
depends on how much information you
absorb when you were little
everything was new to you your first
bite of pizza your first trip to the
ocean
the first time you saw a giraffe yeah
that was cool
all of that took a lot of brain power to
process
your brain was recording every new
detail in your memory
and it seemed like it took more time the
older you get
the more neural connections your brain
has
it's like a tree with many branches your
tree keeps growing
and it takes less time to process the
same amount of information
you also learn how to feel the passage
of time more accurately
there's also a mathematical explanation
when you're 10
one year is a whopping 10 percent of
your life
i mean waiting a whole month more for
your birthday presents
feels like an eternity when you're 20
one year is only five percent of your
life
as you age one year more or less keeps
becoming less and less significant
that's why the five years between the
age of 5 and 10
can feel as long as the 40 years between
40 and 80.
your biological clock never stops
ticking
your metabolism heartbeat they all slow
down over time
you take less breaths and have less
heartbeats per minute
and you feel like time speeding past hey
i know that feeling
you can try to full time a bit and play
the vacation paradox card
there are two different ways to perceive
one event when it's still going on
and after it's already ended when you're
on vacation
discovering and seeing new things time
seems to fly by
when you come back home it feels like
it's been forever
even though you were only gone a week so
if you try new things every day meet new
people
or constantly learn new skills you'll
speed up the passage of time
but stretch it out in your memory to
boost the time slowing effect
you can spend a half an hour before bed
remembering what you did that day
you'll be more engaged in the moment and
even regular daily things
will feel more unique and new when you
have to stay home for a long period of
time
and don't have a schedule to keep time
seems endless
and the future never seems to come at
all about half of us think the future is
moving towards
us the other half believe they're going
forward and the future is something
stuck and still like you're a train and
the future is your final destination
to find out which group you're in take a
go at
solving this little riddle a party
planned for next friday
has been moved forward two days when is
the party going to happen
if you said wednesday you believe you're
still
and the future is moving if your answer
is sunday
you think you're moving towards the
future when you're waiting for something
to happen
or just feel bored because you have
nothing to do
your mind starts wandering you start to
over sense your own bodily feelings
and time seems to expand hunger
also affects your perception of time
scientists tried showing pictures of
desserts to hungry and full participants
those who were full didn't have the
motivation to make time rush by
they felt like they were shown the
pictures for longer than they actually
were
another experiment proved that nature
can also make time go slower for you
participants who went for a walk through
the wild
felt like it lasted longer than the same
walk in the city
even watching videos of awe-inspiring
natural
objects like waterfalls gives the
illusion that time has frozen
in place when you're doing something you
enjoy
your mind is focused on what you're
doing you don't have time
to track time it works even better if
you're trying to achieve a goal
all that excitement makes you feel like
time flies
sometimes it can get you really stressed
when you can't figure out where all that
time's gone
if that happens to you at the office
just leave your cubicle or the entire
building
for at least five minutes it'll help put
you right back on track
you get to see some events in your life
especially scary or sad ones
in slow motion that's because of how
your memory works
when you're living through a fearful
moment your brain activates one of its
superpowers
noticing and analyzing every single
detail
that's why people who get in sticky
situations often feel like time
just froze they say that's what gave
them time to react properly
and get out of any danger you probably
inherited this talent from your
ancestors
they needed the ability to slow down
time just to survive their day-to-day
lives
and that saber-toothed tiger over there
some emotions can speed up your internal
clock others slow it down
uncertainty has the power to stretch
time when you're waiting for test
results
10 minutes can feel like an hour your
brain goes into overdrive
paying attention to every insignificant
detail
when you're doing something routine time
goes by faster
you don't usually feel strong emotions
and you just end up
losing yourself in your own thoughts
when you're doing something unique
like performing on stage you get fully
self-aware
and focus hard on every moment that's
why
time seems to freeze when you're given a
deadline
no matter how distant you can't be fully
present in the moment
your mind gets obsessed with finishing
the task and doesn't notice the small
details
like if you're getting hungry thirsty or
tired
distractions are key to stopping time
from running away from you
if you look at the clock too much you
can experience something known as the
stopped
clock illusion when you're busy with
something and glance over at one of
those
old-fashioned clocks the second hand
seems to freeze
then time sort of restarts and goes on
this happens because when you move your
eyes quickly from one object to another
there's a quick break in your vision
when that happens
it takes you off autopilot you get
confused and your sense of time gets all
wonky to feel it stretch your arms out
in front of you
and quickly shift your eyes from one
index finger to the other
when you do it you'll notice a tiny
moment of well
nothing your brain tries to always give
you a seamless picture of what's going
on around you
and when your eyes move so fast there's
a pause and input that has to be filled
with something
your body's internal clock is actually
kind of perfect
how often have you woken up a few
seconds before your alarm
the sciency word for it is circadian
rhythm
and it dictates when you're active and
when you have to go to bed
it's regulated by a special protein it
loves and needs routine to function well
if you go to bed and wake up at the same
time
every day the protein will adjust your
body to your new schedule
when you have to wake up super early
just once say you have a flight to catch
you worry a lot about it the night
before your body knows what time you set
the alarm for and it ramps up your
stress level
about an hour before you actually have
to get up
when you hit the snooze button you're
basically throwing away
all the work your body did to wake you
up your internal clock starts spinning
in the opposite direction
your hormones go crazy and you feel
sleepier than ever
the more times it snooze the worse it
gets
the easiest possible way to travel in
time is to take the elevator to the top
floor of a skyscraper
time runs faster up there because
gravity gets weaker with every floor
now before you get too excited we're
only talking about a few
fractions of a nanosecond you could try
moving to some distant planet if you
wanted to live longer
but that wouldn't make a huge difference
either you might live to be 200 mercury
years old
but no one would be around to throw you
a birthday party